Sync/Async wrapper article (#52879)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/asynchronous-programming-patterns/synchronous-wrappers-for-asynchronous-methods.md

---
title: "Synchronous wrappers for asynchronous methods"
description: Learn why you should avoid exposing synchronous wrappers for asynchronous methods in .NET libraries, and how to mitigate issues when sync-over-async is unavoidable.
ms.date: 04/06/2026
ai-usage: ai-assisted
dev_langs:
  - "csharp"
  - "vb"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "sync over async"
  - "async deadlock"
  - "ConfigureAwait"
  - "asynchronous programming, wrappers"
  - "TAP, synchronous wrappers"
---
# Synchronous wrappers for asynchronous methods

When a library exposes only asynchronous APIs, consumers sometimes wrap them in synchronous calls to satisfy a synchronous interface or contract. This "sync-over-async" pattern can seem straightforward, but it's a common source of deadlocks and performance problems.

## Basic wrapping patterns

> A synchronous wrapper around a Task-based Asynchronous Pattern (TAP) method accesses the task's <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task%601.Result> property, which blocks the calling thread:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A synchronous wrapper around a Task-based Asynchronous Pattern (TAP) method accesses the task's <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task`1.Result> property, which blocks the calling thread:
```

1. Each async operation completes its I/O and needs a thread pool thread to run its completion callback.
1. Because blocked calls occupy available worker threads, completions might wait a long time for a thread to become available.
1. Modern .NET can add more thread pool threads over time, but the application can still suffer severe thread pool starvation, poor throughput, long delays, or an apparent hang.

This pattern affected `HttpWebRequest.GetResponse` in .NET Framework 1.x, where the synchronous method was implemented as a wrapper around the asynchronous `BeginGetResponse`/`EndGetResponse`.

## Guideline: avoid exposing synchronous wrappers

Don't expose a synchronous method that wraps an asynchronous implementation. Instead, leave the decision of whether to block to the consumer. The consumer knows their threading environment and can make an informed choice.

If you find yourself needing to call an asynchronous method synchronously, consider first whether you can restructure the code to be "async all the way down." Refactoring is often the better long-term solution.

## Mitigation strategies when sync-over-async is unavoidable

> Sometimes sync-over-async is truly unavoidable. For example, when implementing an interface that requires a synchronous method, and the only available implementation is asynchronous. In those cases, apply these strategies to reduce the risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes sync-over-async is truly unavoidable. For example, it's unavoidable when you implement an interface that requires a synchronous method, and the only available implementation is asynchronous. In those cases, apply the following strategies to reduce the risk.
```
